[docs] write up a guide for GitHub builds (#23214)
expo/expo: docs/pages/build/building-from-github.mdx

---
title: Trigger builds from the Expo GitHub App

> sidebar_title: Trigger builds from GitHub App

Author: I want it to be a bit more explicit than that since we also have a GH actions CI guide that would technically be "triggering builds from GitHub" too

> sidebar_title: Trigger builds from GitHub App

Reviewer: Thank you for the clarification! Makes sense.

---

> title: Trigger builds from the Expo GitHub App

Reviewer: Do you think for the sidebar we shorten the title to "Trigger builds from GitHub app"? I don't have the context on "Expo GitHub App", so that's why I'm asking this question :)

Author: Yeah, shortening it makes sense

description: Learn how to trigger builds on EAS for your app using the Expo GitHub App.
---

import ImageSpotlight from '~/components/plugins/ImageSpotlight';

This document outlines how to trigger builds on EAS for your app from a CI environment such as GitHub Actions, Travis CI, and more.

Before building with EAS on CI, we need to install and configure `eas-cli`. Then, we can trigger new builds with the `eas build` command.

## Prerequisites

> > While in preview, this feature is only available to EAS subscribers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **warning** While in preview, this feature is only available to EAS subscribers.
```

Alternatively, since this feature is in preview, we can remove Prerequisites section and add this warning at the top of the page. In some cases, it might be easy for folks to skip the prerequisites and dive into the guide.

### Run a successful build from your local machine

> To trigger EAS builds from a GitHub, we first need to configure our app for EAS Build and successfully run a build from our local machine for each platform that we'd like to support on GitHub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To trigger EAS builds from a GitHub repo, you'll need to configure your project for EAS Build and successfully run a build from your computer for each platform that you'd like to support on GitHub.
```

> If you have run `eas build -p [all|ios|android]` successfully before, then you can continue.
> 
> If you haven't done this yet, please refer to the [Creating your first build](setup.mdx) guide and return here when you're ready.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have run `eas build -p [all|ios|android]` successfully before, then you can continue. If you haven't done this yet, refer to the [Create your first build](setup.mdx) and return here when ready.
```

We can omit the word "please" since this is an instruction.

## Configure your app for GitHub

### Link your GitHub repository to your Expo project

Visit your project's [GitHub settings
page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[projectName]/github).

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The project GitHub settings page"
  src="/static/images/eas-build/build-from-github/project-github-page.png"
/>

Install the Expo GitHub App on your GitHub account.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The GitHub app installation UI"
  src="/static/images/eas-build/build-from-github/install-github-app.png"
/>

Link your GitHub account to your Expo account.

> **Note:** You must be an admin of the Expo account to install the app. Also, You can only link GitHub
> organizations to Expo organizations.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The GitHub account linking UI"
  src="/static/images/eas-build/build-from-github/link-github-account.png"
/>

> Then, you'll be able to link
> your repository to your Expo project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, you'll be able to link your repository to your Expo project.
```

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The repository selector on the Expo project GitHub settings page"
  src="/static/images/eas-build/build-from-github/connect-a-repository.png"
/>

### Configure your repository settings

> Before running a build, we need to know where to find the source code for your project. If your Expo

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you run a build, the Expo GitHub App needs to know where to find the source code for your project. If your Expo
```

> project sourse code is in the root of your repository, then you don't need to do anything. If your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
project source code is in the root of your repository, then you don't need to do anything. If your
```

Author: 🙈

Expo project source code is in a subdirectory, then you'll need to configure "Base directory"
settings for your repository on your project's [GitHub settings
page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[projectName]/github).

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The base directory input on the Expo project GitHub settings page"
  src="/static/images/eas-build/build-from-github/specify-base-directory.png"
/>

## Trigger a build from GitHub

Once you've configured your app for GitHub, you can trigger a build from GitHub by using the UI on

> your project's builds list page or by labels on your GitHub PRs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
your project's build list page or by labels on your GitHub PRs.
```

### Build using the Expo website

> Visit your project's [builds list

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Visit your project's [build list
```

page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[projectName]/builds) and click the "Build from
GitHub" button. You'll be prompted to select a Git ref (branch/commit/tag), a platform to build

> for and the build profile to apply to it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for, and the build profile to apply to it.
```

You can also specify a base directory for this specific build. That will not change the global
settings for this project.

<ImageSpotlight
  alt="The build from GitHub UI on the Expo project builds list page"
  src="/static/images/eas-build/build-from-github/github-build-ui.png"
/>

### Build using GitHub PR labels

You can trigger a build from a GitHub PR by adding a label to the PR. The label must be in the form
of `eas-build-[platform]:[profile]` where `[platform]` is either `android`, `ios`, or `all` and
`[profile]` is the name of a build profile specified in your **eas.json** file. If you don't specify
a build platform, it will default to `all`. If you don't speficy
a build profile, it will default to `production`.

For example, if

> you want to trigger a production build for Android, you would add the label `eas-build-android` to the PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you want to trigger a production build for Android, add the label `eas-build-android` to the PR.
```

We can be a bit concise here by avoiding the reference to the user/reader.

<ImageSpotlight

>   alt="A PR with the eas-build label and live status checks"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  alt="A PR with the EAS Build label and live status checks"
```

Author: The intention was to be literal about what the label's contents are. Maybe this suggestion would be clearer:

```suggestion
  alt="A PR with the \"eas-build\" label and live status checks"
```
